With all this extra stressin', the question I wonder is after death..after my last breath, when will I finally get to rest? Through this oppression they punish the people that are asking questions. And those that possess steal from the ones without possession. The message I stress. To make you stop, study your lessons, don't settle for less. Even the genius asks questions. Be grateful for blessings. Don't ever change keep your essence. The power is in the people & politics we address. Always do your best. Don't let this pressure make you panic when you get stranded & things don't go the way you planned it. Dreaming of riches, in a position to make a difference. Politicians and hypocrites-they don't wanna listen. If I'm insane it was the fame made a brotha change, it wasn't nothin like the game. It's just me against the world.

My Dearest Angela, I have just finished our brief and torturous conversation and I'm going crazy with thoughts, hopes and fantasies concerning you. I cant explain this effects u have on my brain but it's intoxicating and hard 2 shake. The only drawback is my confinement limits my engagements for at least a year and 1/2
Passionately, 2PAC P.S Is this personal enough?

When your hero falls from grace, all fairy tales are uncovered.
myths exposed, and pain magnified, the greatest pain discovered.
You taught me to be strong, but I'm confused too see you so weak. You said never to give up, and it hurts to see you welcome defeat. When you'r hero falls, so do the stars, and so does the perception of tomorrow. Without my hero, there is only me alone to deal with my sorrow. Your heart ceases to work and your soul is not happy at all. What are you expected to do when your only hero falls?

I, exist only in the depths of solitude, pondering my true goal. Trying to find peace of mind and still preserve my soul. Constantly yearning to be accepted, and from all receive respect. Never compromising but sometimes risky, and that's my only regret. A young heart with an old soul, how can there be peace, how can I be in the depths of solitude when there are two inside of me. This duo within me causes the perfect opportunity to learn and live twice as fast, as those who accept simplicity.

All my life I dreamed of meeting one with immense beauty, and once I found her, I would charm her and she'd be mine forever.
I have found her and indeed she is all i wished for and more but she is not charmed nor intrigued, then I think to myself, "what can I offer her?" The tears warm my eyes and blur my vision, I stick to my stance of bravado and give her the same uninterested look she gave me. She was so beautiful, but what can I offer her.

Things that make hearts break
pretty smiles
deceiving laughs
and people who dream with their eyes open
lonely children
unanswered cries
and souls who have given up hoping
the other thing that breaks hearts are fairy tales that never come true
and selfish people who lie to me, selfish people just like you

I ran outside to feel the rain
and I stayed outside for a while
when the rain was done, along came the sun
and this was cupid's smile

I shall not fear no man but God
Though I walk through the valley of death
I shed so many tears (if I should die before I wake)
Please God walk with me (grab a nigga and take me to Heaven)

Back in elementary, I thrived on misery
Left me alone I grew up amongst a dyin' breed
Inside my mind couldn't find a place to rest
Until I got that Thug Life tatted on my chest
Tell me can you feel me? I'm not livin'' in the past, you wanna last
Be tha first to blast, remember Kato
No longer with us he's deceased
Call on the sirens, seen him murdered in the streets
Now rest in peace
Is there heaven for a G? Remember me
So many homies in the cemetery, shed so many tears

Ah, I suffered through the years, and shed so many tears
Lord, I lost so many peers, and shed so many tears

Now that I'm strugglin' in this business, by any means
Label me greedy gettin' green, but seldom seen
And fuck the world cause I'm cursed, I'm havin' visions
Of leavin'' here in a hearse, God can you feel me?
Take me away from all the pressure, and all the pain
Show me some happiness again, I'm goin' blind
I spend my time in this cell, ain't livin'' well
I know my destiny is Hell, where did I fail?
My life is in denial, and when I die,
Baptized in eternal fire I'll shed so many tears

Lord, I suffered through the years, and shed so many tears
Lord, I lost so many peers, and shed so many tears

Now I'm lost and I'm weary, so many tears
I'm suicidal, so don't stand near me
My every move is a calculated step, to bring me closer
To embrace an early death, now there's nothin'' left
There was no mercy on the streets, I couldn't rest
I'm barely standin', bout to go to pieces, screamin' peace
And though my soul was deleted, I couldn't see it
I had my mind full of demons tryin' to break free
They planted seeds and they hatched, sparkin' the flame
Inside my brain like a match, such a dirty game
No memories, just a misery
Paintin' a picture of my enemies killin'' me, in my sleep
Will I survive til the mo'nin, to see the sun
Please Lord forgive me for my sins, cause here I come

Lord, I suffered through the years (God) and shed so many tears
God, I lost so many peers, and shed so many tears

Lord knows I, tried, been a witness to homicide
Seen drive-by's takin' lives, little kids die
Wonder why as I walk by
Broken-hearted as I glance at the chalk line, gettin' high
This ain't the life for me, I wanna change
But ain't no future right for me, I'm stuck in the game
I'm trapped inside a maze
See this Tanqueray influenced me to gettin' crazy
Disillusioned lately, I've been really wantin' babies
So I could see a part of me that wasn't always shady
Don't trust my lady, cause she's a product of this poison
I'm hearin' noises, think she fuckin' all my boys, can't take no more
I'm fallin' to the floor; beggin' for the Lord to let me in
To Heaven's door, shed so many tears
(Dear God, please let me in)

Lord, I've lost so many years, and shed so many tears
I lost so many peers, and shed so many tears
Lord, I suffered through the years, and shed so many tears
God, I lost so many peers, and shed so many tears

Come on come on
I see no changes wake up in the morning and I ask myself
Is life worth living should I blast myself?
I'm tired of bein' poor and even worse I'm black
My stomach hurts so I'm lookin' for a purse to snatch
Cops give a damn about a negro
Pull the trigger kill a nigga he's a hero
Give the crack to the kids who the hell cares
One less hungry mouth on the welfare
First ship 'em dope and let 'em deal the brothers
Give 'em guns step back watch 'em kill each other
It's time to fight back that's what Huey said
Two shots in the dark now Huey's dead
I got love for my brother but we can never go nowhere
Unless we share with each other
We gotta start makin' changes
Learn to see me as a brother instead of two distant strangers
And that's how it's supposed to be
How can the Devil take a brother if he's close to me?
I'd love to go back to when we played as kids
But things changed, and that's the way it is

That's just the way it is
Things will never be the same
That's just the way it is
Aww yeah

That's just the way it is
Things will never be the same
That's just the way it is
Aww yeah

I see no changes all I see is racist faces
Misplaced hate makes disgrace to races
We under I wonder what it takes to make this
One better place, let's erase the wasted
Take the evil out the people they'll be acting right
'Cause both black and white is smokin' crack tonight
And only time we chill is when we kill each other
It takes skill to be real, time to heal each other
And although it seems heaven sent
We ain't ready, to see a black President, uhh
It ain't a secret don't conceal the fact
The penitentiary's packed, and it's filled with blacks
But some things will never change
Try to show another way but you stayin' in the dope game
Now tell me what's a mother to do
Bein' real don't appeal to the brother in you
You gotta operate the easy way
"I made a G today" But you made it in a sleazy way
Sellin' crack to the kid. " I gotta get paid, "
Well hey, well that's the way it is

That's just the way it is
Things will never be the same
That's just the way it is
Aww yeah

That's just the way it is
Things will never be the same
That's just the way it is
Aww yeah

We gotta make a change
It's time for us as a people to start makin' some changes.
Let's change the way we eat, let's change the way we live
And let's change the way we treat each other.
You see the old way wasn't working so it's on us to do
What we gotta do, to survive.

And still I see no changes can't a brother get a little peace
It's war on the streets and the war in the Middle East
Instead of war on poverty they got a war on drugs
So the police can bother me
And I ain't never did a crime I ain't have to do
But now I'm back with the blacks givin' it back to you
Don't let 'em jack you up, back you up,
Crack you up and pimp smack you up
You gotta learn to hold ya own
They get jealous when they see ya with ya mobile phone
But tell the cops they can't touch this
I don't trust this when they try to rush I bust this
That's the sound of my tool you say it ain't cool
My mama didn't raise no fool
And as long as I stay black I gotta stay strapped
And I never get to lay back
'Cause I always got to worry 'bout the pay backs
Some buck that I roughed up way back
Comin' back after all these years
Rat-a-tat-tat-tat-tat that's the way it is uhh

That's just the way it is
Things will never be the same
That's just the way it is
Aww yeah

You are appreciated

When I was young me and my mama had beef
Seventeen years old kicked out on the streets
Though back at the time, I never thought I'd see her face
Ain't a woman alive that could take my mama's place
Suspended from school, and scared to go home, I was a fool
With the big boys, breaking all the rules
I shed tears with my baby sister
Over the years we was poorer than the other little kids
And even though we had different daddy's, the same drama
When things went wrong we'd blame mama
I reminisce on the stress I caused, it was hell
Hugging on my mama from a jail cell
And who'd think in elementary?
Hey! I see the penitentiary, one day
And running from the police, that's right
Mama catch me, put a whooping to my backside
And even as a crack fiend, mama
You always was a black queen, mama
I finally understand
For a woman it ain't easy trying to raise a man
You always was committed
A poor single mother on welfare, tell me how ya did it
There's no way I can pay you back
But the plan is to show you that I understand
You are appreciated

Lady
Don't you know we love ya? Sweet lady
Dear mama
Place no one above ya, sweet lady
You are appreciated
Don't ya know we love ya?

Now ain't nobody tell us it was fair
No love from my daddy cause the coward wasn't there
He passed away and I didn't cry, cause my anger
Wouldn't let me feel for a stranger
They say I'm wrong and I'm heartless, but all along
I was looking for a father he was gone
I hung around with the Thugs, and even though they sold drugs
They showed a young brother love
I moved out and started really hanging
I needed money of my own so I started slangin
I ain't guilty cause, even though I sell rocks
It feels good putting money in your mailbox
I love paying rent when the rent's due
I hope ya got the diamond necklace that I sent to you
'Cause when I was low you was there for me
And never left me alone because you cared for me
And I could see you coming home after work late
You're in the kitchen trying to fix us a hot plate
Ya just working with the scraps you was given
And mama made miracles every Thanksgiving
But now the road got rough, you're alone
You're trying to raise two bad kids on your own
And there's no way I can pay you back
But my plan is to show you that I understand
You are appreciated

Lady
Don't you know we love ya? Sweet lady
And dear mama
Place no one above ya, sweet lady
You are appreciated
Don't ya know we love ya?

Pour out some liquor and I reminisce, cause through the drama
I can always depend on my mama
And when it seems that I'm hopeless
You say the words that can get me back in focus
When I was sick as a little kid
To keep me happy there's no limit to the things you did
And all my childhood memories
Are full of all the sweet things you did for me
And even though I act crazy
I gotta thank the Lord that you made me
There are no words that can express how I feel
You never kept a secret, always stayed real
And I appreciate, how you raised me
And all the extra love that you gave me
I wish I could take the pain away
If you can make it through the night there's a brighter day
Everything will be alright if ya hold on
It's a struggle everyday, gotta roll on
And there's no way I can pay you back
But my plan is to show you that I understand
You are appreciated

Lady
Don't you know we love ya? Sweet lady
And dear mama
Place no one above ya, sweet lady
You are appreciated
Don't ya know we love ya?

Sweet lady
And dear mama

Dear mama
Lady, lady, lady

Little somethin' for my godson Elijah
And a little girl named Corinne

Some say the blacker the berry, the sweeter the juice
I say the darker the flesh then the deeper the roots
I give a holla to my sisters on welfare
2Pac cares, if don't nobody else care
And, I know they like to beat you down a lot
When you come around the block, brothers clown a lot
But please don't cry, dry your eyes, never let up
Forgive but don't forget, girl, keep your head up
And when he tells you you ain't nothin', don't believe him
And if he can't learn to love you, you should leave him
Cause sister, you don't need him
And I ain't tryin' to gas ya up, I just call 'em how I see 'em
You know what makes me unhappy
When brothers make babies, and leave a young mother to be a pappy
And since we all came from a woman
Got our name from a woman and our game from a woman
I wonder why we take from our women
Why we rape our women, do we hate our women?
I think it's time to kill for our women
Time to heal our women, be real to our women
And if we don't we'll have a race of babies
That will hate the ladies that make the babies
And since a man can't make one
He has no right to tell a woman when and where to create one
So will the real men get up
I know you're fed up ladies, but keep your head up

Keep ya head up, ooh, child, things are gonna get easier
Keep ya head up, ooh, child, things'll get brighter
[x2]

Aiyyo, I remember Marvin Gaye used to sing to me
He had me feelin' like black was the thing to be
And suddenly the ghetto didn't seem so tough
And though we had it rough, we always had enough
I huffed and puffed about my curfew and broke the rules
Ran with the local crew and had a smoke or two
And I realize Momma really paid the price
She nearly gave her life to raise me right
And all I had to give her was my pipe dream
Of how I'd rock the mic and make it to the bright screen
I'm tryin' to make a dollar out of fifteen cents
It's hard to be legit and still pay the rent
And in the end it seems I'm headin' for the pen
I try to find my friends but they're blowin' in the wind
Last night my buddy lost his whole family
It's gonna take the man in me to conquer this insanity
It seems the rain'll never let up
I try to keep my head up and still keep from gettin' wet up
You know it's funny when it rains it pours
They got money for wars but can't feed the poor
Say there ain't no hope for the youth and the truth is
It ain't no hope for the future
And then they wonder why we crazy
I blame my mother for turning my brother into a crack baby
We ain't meant to survive cause it's a setup
And even though you're fed up
Huh, ya got to keep your head up

Keep ya head up, ooh, child, things are gonna get easier
Keep ya head up, ooh, child, things'll get brighter
[x2]

And uh, to all the ladies havin' babies on they own
I know it's kinda rough and you're feelin' all alone
Daddy's long gone and he left you by your lonesome
Thank the Lord for my kids, even if nobody else want 'em
Cause I think we can make it, in fact, I'm sure
And if you fall, stand tall and come back for more
Cause ain't nothin' worse than when your son
Wants to know why his daddy don't love him no mo'
You can't complain you was dealt this
Hell of a hand without a man, feelin' helpless
Because there's too many things for you to deal with
Dyin' inside, but outside you're looking fearless
While tears is rollin' down your cheeks
Ya steady hopin' things don't fall down this week
Cause if it did, you couldn't take it, and don't blame me
I was given this world I didn't make it
And now my son's gettin' older and older and cold
From havin' the world on his shoulders
While the rich kids is drivin' Benz
I'm still tryin' to hold on to surviving friends
And it's crazy, it seems it'll never let up, but
Please, you got to keep your head up
